## Effects of AI/Automation in Politics
As Mike and Max both pointed out, the middle and poorer classes of this country have been hurting because of new technologies which make skilled workers vastly more productive, but require less and less unskilled/routine labor. And this has led to a vehement anger by many Americans against our political system and the status quo.

In November of 2015, Congress' job approval rating was at an abysmal 11%, showing American's distrust of our government and hatred towards the status quo. As can be seen by Brexit and other political movements around the world, the social unrest caused by a declining middle class has led to people hammering their governments for change.

The weakening of the middle class, as a result of automation and artificial intelligence, has also led to the destabilization of democracy, these MIT economists argue. In their paper, The Political Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy, these authors argue that the middle class is vital to democracy, acting as a buffer between the poor and rich, and that when the middle class is small and weak, the rich won't choose to democratize because of the high taxes and policies they would have to implement, so instead choose to repress the poor. Analyzing democracies all over the world, such as in South America, these authors believe in protecting and creating a strong middle class so that violent acts of revolution and repression don't occur. This will be our priority as well, which Max will highlight through our solution which focuses on public education.

These MIT Economists and authors of Why Nations Fail argue that besides inspiring political movements against the status quo, the weakening of the middle class has also led to the destabilization of democracy. In their paper, The Political Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy, these authors argue that the middle class is vital to democracy, acting as a buffer between the poor and rich. When the middle class is poor and small, the rich are less likely to democratize, because their taxes would be sky-high in a democracy to pay for redistributive policies which help the poor and win their votes. Instead of incurring the heavy cost of redistributive policies, the rich would instead use violent repression to block the poor from voting, as can be seen in the political history of South America countries. When the middle class is large and wealthy, however, the rich are very likely to democratize because they know in a democracy their taxes wouldn't be too high and they could forego the risk of a system-toppling revolution.

Now that we've analyzed the major consequences of artificial intelligence and automation, Max will begin by introducing our solutions.


## Government's role for easier transition
As Max mentioned, education is vital for adapting to the new economy. One aspect of our solution that we agreed upon is re-education and job retraining for currently unskilled workers, who occupy fields such as manufacturing and soon to be truck driving (which is america's most common job). We see it as the responsibility of everyone, including the government, private corporations, and individuals to future-proof themselves, though there are specific areas where we think the government should take initiative. We believe that the government should heavily invest in Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCS), which democratize education by taking away the price barrier and allow people from slums to learn from the world's greatest professors. It also allows people who graduate highschool to further their education at a low cost, continually adapting to the changing economy. To allow currently unskilled workers to quit their jobs and pursue job retraining, we believe that the government should also enact either a universal basic income or negative income tax, which would give workers economic freedom to further their education and contribute to the economy. Politically, the UBI has bipartisan support and has been implemented in Canada, India, and Denmark, with heavy consideration by the EU AI conference.  


## Conclusions
To conclude, our solution is focused on education and job retraining, which will allow our citizens to brace for the new changes in our economy. There are, however, a few concessions to our argument that we thought we should include. One is a lack of academic resources and research journals that pertained to artificial intelligence and automation. Many major developments of artificial intelligence such as the development of the self-driving car were created recently, and thus there hasn't been enough to analyze and prescribe solutions.

Another weakness is inherent of our topic. We can't foresee the skills that will be necessary 10 years in the future as our technology and processing power is rapidly improving. We didn't know 50 years ago that computer game developers would be an important profession. All we can do is give our students creativity and the ability to adapt by themselves.   
